is a brief on the use case and resurvey context. Existing process flows and key pain points. Current mitigation mechanisms expectation from a base solution including technical and integration aspects. Explanation of data sets being provided and clarification of queries related with the participating startups. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we will start first. We'll explain the agriculture resurvey mechanism in a brief. This thing for you and later we'll discuss how the we are expecting the AI tools to be of use in that resurvey process. Our deputy director, Sri Jairaj Sir will explain the resurvey process for you in a short, brief manner, Sir. Need to explain yesterday. But need love attention. Yeah. So good morning to all. The garage deputy director projects. So I will explain in detail what the mechanism we have done it for resurvey in Andhra Pradesh. So how do we? We operated the resurvey process in Andhra Pradesh 2022. So first we will see that the mechanism technically technicality. What we have been done it for the resurvey. So we have a. Continuous operating references station that is. We have been shown in the picture. It also you can see it in the screen. So the second one is that we will have a drone system which capture the pictures and all in the land records and all. So another one thing, say differential global positioning system. That is, we have been used to for entire mechanism to monitoring everything and all and getting the details from the land data center. So further we have used the aircraft system also. For drone flying systems and that and all and another one things in geo coordinates operating system we are. We are taking the these things and all from rovers and all. Next to this one. So how we go for the resurvey and all will explain in detail. So section before going for a survey director surveillance records will notify the section 5 for conducting the survey. The entire state. If you want to go for a resurvey. So like that we started 5 notification to the entire state. After that, after completing the 5 notification will fly the drone flight to the entire state that we already started. Will explain details that how many villages we have been started and that no will give me next slide. So after getting the drone fly will have generated the or eyes and all. So already after getting the or eyes will have a quality checker mechanism that also we will check in the our lab. Second one. So after getting the or eyes. Then we will submit the same or right to the our field stuff. So field staff will conduct the survey with the or eye with the or eye and we have a survey system that survey or department staff will also will do participate in the fixing of the village boundaries. So before going for a resurvey will be each and every village. We have a cadastral maps and all that maps will supply to the village surveys with the maps and all will fix the village boundaries and block boundaries in government lands and within the village boundaries. We have a government lands and all government and government land also will fix with the old traditional way. Traditional method that the records and all will will take into the field and with the measurements of the. About FMB, so we'll refix the boundaries in the field. So after that. So along with that. We'll have a revenue records and all that. That is a FPOLR, the field level purification of land records. Along with the records, we will go for a survey also after these two and we'll have a ground truthing and ground validation. You can see in the picture and all how we are going with the with the help of robbers and all will take into the ground truthing and vitrization and validations and all validations and vitrization also will explain detail. So after completing the ground truthing and all, we'll validate validation when we have a vitrization of that thing. After the vitrization, we'll have a draft shapefile when each and every LPNL we have a shapefile and LPMs and correlation statement. And that means when we have a. Maps and all our maps which will be reflected will have a correlation statements also. Correlation statement means older survey number which which we have a already we have a cadastral maps and all that is called FMB and all. FMB in which we will have a correlation statement that is a correlation statement which represent the new LPMs under the resurvey spatial data and all will explain in that correlation statements. After the correlation statement we received. The correlation statement have a LPM database. We have a data for revenue report revenue department's record that is called Webland one. Webland and we can have. We have a lot of records and all that survey number extend the classifications that and all we have been shown in that. So after completing the data, the data which LPM data and that data will be uploaded in VS login. So VS login will have a older survey number and now we have what we have done it in the resurvey that LP numbers also will be filled. Data will be uploaded in that columns and all we will already show shown in the nostrils of this number Jalta number LP number and LP number extend that. Now we will a server will be. Uploading in that after that VRO VRO will upload uploaded in the classification that not these two after completion in that that will send to the Tajdar Sada will approve the all the data whether it is correct or not. After completing that we will have a draft land register so draft land register after completing the draft land register the same will be sent to the RDO for verification and any corrections and only can correct it. After that, if it is found that it's all correct, you will accept it and inside submit to the joint collector joint collector approval after approval of joint collector. Final error will be. Finalized then we will submit to the 30 notification. Appease 30 notification before that if any anybody have an appeal regarding the research survey. They can appeal under Section 99 second under Section 11. They can go for a survey and boundary sector. They can appeal it if if any appeal is received appeal also as speaking order will be given by the deputies are the resurvey. If out of the speaking order he has given to the applicant that will be uploaded that will be corrected in in the final error. So after completing all this process final error and final error also will publish and 30 notification at the completion of the resurvey operations also will be completed. Draft error will be a final error will be a publish in the. Final error will be published and it will be accepted by the revenue department and will be ported in the final web line 2. That is a process we are now under. So regarding what are the. So state profile low we have that also you can see that total area of the state is 1.26 lakhs square kilometers. Out of that village is about 1.5 lakhs square kilometers. So that is the total area of the state. So that is 1.26 lakhs square kilometers. Out of that village is total villages 16,816. That signals means which have a signals as we have signal villages and. Comments with core network we will be in completed 13,321 non signal villages. We have a 3495. So in in the entire state we have a habitation of 14 to 47,816. In in that another urban local areas also is there 124 real business there. 10 lakhs open floors is there. 40 lakhs assessment will be there. Population is 1.5 square kilometers. Agricultural answer. So 90 lakhs, but other we have 2.0. So 90 lakhs, but other we have 2.0 scores acres. Also we have. So we started around to know good precedent. So phase one we have we have we have started the already we completed the flying of the villages is 13,321 villages we have completed. Or I sent to the district and after completing the flying we have we will receive the or is and always will be have been submitted to the district. 12,006 361 or is we haven't sent to the district administration for a resurvey. Out of the 12,361 ground survey and the resurvey we started 8755. So in out of that ground validation 8305 ground validation is also we have completed. Out of that 1330 notifications that is a completion of the resurvey completed villages is 7308. So after completion of 30 notification, final hour will be published. We have published 6688 villages. We have been completed the resurvey. Oops. OK. So next. But use case. So brief the use case of the resurvey condenser. On statewide resurvey to ensure the dispute free land records and modernization of land administration. So first one, second one is drone aircraft based survey used for a data acquisition and creation of ortho ratified images. So are a DNS received and DNS receivers and 70 cross based stations we have right now. Other places have been using for the ground proofing purpose. So in that manual digitalization creation of land parcel from coordination coordinating the collection by the genus rovers, geospatial technology for utilization and creation of land parcel. So needs of automatic tools for feature extraction from RA. In this, no, so. So in the in this hackathon we want to develop. We need a tools for the automatic extraction of the land parcels from the more ortho ratified images using the geospatial image processing technology techniques and for we need data. I mean land parcel for the very land parcel for using the field bonds and we need to this is for the every. Every corner of the field bond and also we need the similar data for this. So I'm into about the area to show the gram content in a single parcel and individual property parcels and build a planned and open spaces as a individual polygons. And integration of the data. Anomaly detection conflict detection means we the land parcel should not be overlapped or there should not be any gaps between the land parcels. And I issued a validation tool for the field and inspection teams to prioritize the checks and verify boundaries. And I am we need a high quality data for the field inspection teams to prioritize the checks and verify boundaries. I am we need a high accuracy also. Existing process flows and key point points. We need end to end creation of the accurate dispute free parcels at the reason required scale. Current workflow data acquisition based on application and legal legacy record preparation and field verification conflict resolution in order to get the verified records with manual dependency that is the existing condition. And key pain points are parcel boundary extraction and legal legacy record interpretation, conflict detection and field validation are the issues. There are some issues in the while creating this land parcels and current mitigation process accuracy and quality measures and manually expert review by Munder survey has 20% check on the data created by the surveyor and DIA was 10% and DSL was 5% review. This is the manual inspection of the data created by the surveyor and field re-verification and conflict identification through visual records and interaction with the farmers and iterative correction and escalation mechanism documentation audit trail and survey assessment. There are the current mitigation mechanisms and expectation from the AI based resolution includes accurate automated parcel extraction and land use tagging to reduce the manual tracing early explainable detection of conflicts field ready validation of workflows and these are the required expectation from the AI hackathon and the POC proposal consists to success criteria is a parcel extraction with highest precision and conflict detection and at least 85% when benchmarked against the manual audits. Why AI is being explored hackathon context? The limitation is not the availability but the lack of intelligent automation across the workflow. AI opportunity areas are automated parcel extraction, early conflict and anomaly detection, risk based prioritization, AI assisted tools. Expectation by the hackathon solution or AI should be augmented with existing workflows and output must be accurate explainable and auditable. Solution should include scalable and field deployable. Explanation of data sets. In this AI hackathon we have to use the authenticated images for the data collected by drones and aerial photography for the feature extraction automatic feature extraction and classification of benchmarks and digitized record of rights parcel IDs existing boundary polylines and unique land parcel identification numbers. Raji NSS logs rovers and car stations and tabulated FMB records. I will show now I will show the data here. Are you able to see? So are you able to see the this one? Or is now image images which have been shared? Hello hello this is the this is the yes yes we are able to be able to see the authenticated yes yes yes this is the authenticated imagery for the village in Krishna district. The solution should detect the polygons of possible boundaries. Possible boundaries. The AI tool should extract the land parcels for along this bonbons from here to here and this one. Like this we have to extract the manualization if it's a land parcel extraction of the number manually using the software and from the data collected from the field through GNSS receivers and like this we have to automatically extract the land parcels for every field. Based on the bonds and the matrices should be automatically selected when there is a deviation when there is any change in direction so that the like this all bonds should be captured. Similarly in the Gramakantam area. This is called the Gramakantam area or Abadi area. In this also we have to extract the outer boundary of the Gramakantam and individual parcel boundaries along with the built-up built-up for buildings built-up area and any compound one is there then you should show the compound polygon also and also they need there are any open spaces we have to discharge open space also and roads any road the road should be in a polygon double line road distribution like this. Similarly for another village also we have provided two sample data sets like this here also you have to extract the land parcels and also the Gramakantam boundaries any water body is there then it should be detected automatically from the imagery and organized as a shapefile format. Are there any doubts sir? If you need any clarification please let us know. Meenakshi our presentation is done now. Meenakshi our presentation is done. Now presentation is over you have any questions and the doubts and all you can you can ask we will explain it. Hello Srinathji. If your presentation is over let's let the participants start asking the questions or any anything. I don't know. So I request the participants to ask your doubts regarding this because in that as per the documentation or the process it may be smooth but practically the land related matters are complex like when it comes to the when it comes to field so the expectations from the department is to resolve maximum issues that will be helpful for them to provide good governance to the people. Sorry. Sorry. So sir just to clarify am I audible? It's your honor. Yes yes. So basically we got the orthorectified imagery in the data set and we have to create the polygons of the I mean the polygons based on just like the one the shapefile that you have generated that will be our ground truth right? Yeah based on the bunds. Okay. Bunds visible in the orthorectified image. So whatever solution we provide the input will be the orthorectified image and output will be the shapefiles which you can visualize in it. Correct. The shapefiles having the polygons for all the land parcels. Okay okay okay. And also the word of caution is those polygons whichever have been created should not overlap among each other and also there should not be any gaps between each other. Okay. Yeah if there are any two adjacent polygons there should not be any overlaps or there should not be any gaps. Sir I think if you can explain certain practical issues like sliver polygon that you are mentioning or tilt or something like that I don't know I'm not I'm not an expert but if you can explain what the practical issues then that that will be really helpful for these people to understand. When you are sir when you are making a topology so it will be automatically system will correct so there is no manual intervention or anything see when you are created at two polygons or adjacent polygons so there that system will automatically take care of that is a basic concept of GIS system. The slivers is not not when you create a topology the slivers will be automatically deleted detected and deleted there should be a common boundary between the two parcels suppose there are two parcel A and B so like for A and B there is a common boundary between A and B so that that is the boundary between but the two parcels. A tool will automatically do that. What he means is the A tool should be able to identify those gaps and overlaps and remove them automatically. Yeah there should not be any topology check for that check is not required in that way you have to provide the polygons. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Yes yes you may ask your questions if you have. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Yeah please. Okay. Yes. Thanks for the presentation like that I was going through the data which you share for these two regions along with the shape files so somewhere I thought there was some discrepancy like the boundaries are not well so like is it possible or just it was like my misunderstanding or something like that. No. What you are saying is when you compare the shape file with the ORI then there is a discrepancy that is what you are saying. Yeah. Yeah. Somewhat like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then we have done it in a on ground reality with the help of the difference. Change yes permissible limit is a permissible limit of 5% between the ground and this thing because the OR image might have. See, if one is there exactly, we should draw the lines in according to the middle of the middle of the bundle. If anything is there, if anything changes is required, then we will have field field surveys team will be corrected later. So checking also we are given a 20% checking also we are given to the field staff know. So first thing you do on the imaginary. What are the buns you have shown in the have been extracted in the or a it should be drawn. That is the basic task we have. OK, sure. Understood. And also, like, will it be possible to get some extra data like you have shared it? But for training a good deep learning model, it's like generally preferred. If we can get like more images or shapefiles, would it be possible to get? Two more villages. We can share 2-3 more villagers over eyes and shapefiles that we can. We can share it. No, no, you should. I think you want those two for the AI engine to study more number of images. That is why you're asking. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, but I think for that you can take you can zoom into the war image. Take screenshots or images from that war itself and we can get a lot of images from that images. Yeah, we will be sharing it 3-4 more number of villages also. OK, thanks a lot. Yeah, I like one question I have from the organizing team like when is the MVP supposed to be done for this? Like what's the timeline for that? Yes, energy should answer that. Will be shared within one or two days. That will be finalized and will inform you in in the in what group was. Sure, thank you. Yeah, also equally important is the identification of the the feature extraction of the above the area. Whatever the. Structures are the houses, the compounds which you see here. Those also, if they can be polygonized, that is also another segment of resurvey, which is now handled under the name of Swamitva. So all the above the areas and the structures and the compounds and the houses. They're all handled under the Swamitva program under part of the Swamitva program. They're all handled under the Swamitva program under part of the resurvey program itself, so that is also a different segment altogether. Yeah, in that case we need to identify the polygons for the roads for all the visible compounds or the structures, whatever we are receiving. Similarly, we have to devise a tool that can automatically draw the polygons for those structures. Yeah. Anyone else? Hi Sir. Yes, please. This is Prashanthi from Avani online. Actually, I would like to ask like annually when you are recording the data and everything right? What is the main problem or address that you're facing? No, see actually all the polygons which you are seeing here, they are done. We have an automatic polygonization or vectorization AI tool that can draw the polygons based on the bunds. So if there are any changes, slight over 5% or 10%, we can we will again go to the field carrying these polygons, maps and all. So we will again collect the field level coordinates. But lot of majority of the work of doing this polygonization vectorization would be saved, minimized. Yeah. Minimize it, right? So normally you have mentioned like to reduce disputes also or identify dispute lands also, no? So the dispute. Yeah. Sorry. No, no. Tell me Sir. Dispute is here. The disputes which we meant there is the both the polygons should not overlap on each other or there should not be any gaps. Yeah, if you see there is a line between both the land parcel. Between the land parcel. Yeah, there is a single line. There should not be two lines and there should not be any gaps or both the polygons should not overlap like that. That is what we meant. Okay. So other things are like we might see in some villages they might occupy the like they might extend the land right for farming. That is not identified in this one. Hello. One second. Okay. Sreeniji there is also one more use case. Land encroachment detection. So, So, So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so. So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, Yeah, I think that situation is also required, but as of now that use case is not mentioned in this. So, just a doubt normally in villages we see regularly that when summer is there people would extend and sometimes, the farmer disputes between the farmers is not the scope of this. Yes, I understood that, that is not the scope, yeah got it. That scope they cannot identify, only the field level only, that cannot be identified actually. That is possible after this process and after we have done the vectorization for all the land parcels and all the water bodies and the metadata or the ROR data is merged with the land parcels. Then we will get to know which is a government land parcel, then which is a private land parcel. Private land parcel. And then again, if the government parcel land boundary is encroached upon, then using some AI tool we can try to detect that encroachment, that is also a use case, but that comes after this. Okay, sir, got it, got it. Now, just a little whether this can be included or not, that is it. Yes, ma'am, I think that is not included in the use case, but Mr. Srinathji will clarify. If that is also included, we can do that as well. Okay, sir, got it. Because in the shapefile and the ROR data itself, we have given which land parcel belongs to which classification of land, whether it is a private land or a water body or a government land, we have mentioned there. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That is it. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Any other notes? Hi, sir. So, sir, I have a question. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah, please. Totally. Sorry. Hello. Am I audible, sir? Yeah. You are audible. Please. Okay. The possible problem, like the issue I might see from the data is that there might be then over creation of parcels, because the models in general, I am thinking that there might be a false bunds and all will be there, right, inside the forms, because so there might be a possibility that we will be doing over parcel creations and all. So is it expected or like, because unless we have the boundary records or the area of the parcels and all, we might not be able to correct it. So is it expected that, like, in the land, like in the survey, the land survey guys might be able to fix it? Is that the? Yeah, that is expected, because whatever we are able to see over the ORI, that is only we are trying to polygonize. So there may be some false bunds also, but those things will be corrected during the ground truthing phase, where our miller surveys will be going and again, cross checking the polygons, which you have done. Yes. Understood. Understood. And also, we will open up to, if possible, after the creation of the polygons, we will also, there should also be any mechanism to delete any lines or polygons in a fast manner. That also. That we can do, sir. We can merge the, all the things into single out, outline created one of the, then we go on to the, even tools, RGS tools, the network, polygons, let's just see, then I'll tell you, okay, boundary created, and then create, so that should be done. Normally, in RGS tools, it is slightly, the easiest way of identification and deletion of lines or polygons, and addition of lines of polygons, if that is also can be done, we get it. I will share the, see, we are discussing about the, Yeah, we are trying to show one more sample from other screen, regarding that Abadi area. I'll stop sharing. So, this is the, we have discussed about the polygonization, but the creation of polygons in the Abadi area, you are clearly showing the requirement, the red lines, which shown is a drawn for road, and the blue, blue lines were shown property boundaries. Zoom in. Okay. So, basically, we are trying to explain how to capture the polygons in a habitation area, where there are houses and structures. So, they have tried to capture those polygons in a blue color polygon, this thing, and also the roads through the red color polygons. Can be done, but the polygon should be drawn like this, based on the image depiction, it should be based on the bonds, like where you have in agriculture, you have bond, here there is no bond, only the boundaries of the properties. So, polygons should be done for both the property and the constructed area, that is a building footprint, that is called building footprints. So, the AI tool should automatically generate these polygons in the Abadi, this built up area, habitation area. Yeah. Any more doubts? Yeah, I think Srinathji, we are done with the queries. Yeah, if you have any more doubts, you can share those in our WhatsApp group, we will be trying to explain those things and clarify those things. And we will be sharing three to four more villages, shapefiles and also ORI images. Right. So, thank you for your time. Srinathji, can we close the session? Yes, I think this brings to the end of the session. And I would like to thank each and every one for joining the session. And thank you, thank you sir, thanks for giving us the more details about this, about your expectation and everything. And participants, please raise your queries in WhatsApp group if you have any further queries, and we will support you. And thank you, thanks for joining. Thank you everyone. Yeah, Srinathji, also please confirm whether that land encroachment module use case is also there in our… Yes, yes, I will confirm, I will confirm. Yes, I will confirm. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
